= flexible_date

Make ActiveRecord understand any date format you want.

== How to use

Within your model, you should do:

    flexible_date :my_date_field


And in config/locales/br.yml (or your native language):

    br:
      flexible_date:
        configuration:
          format: "%d/%m/%Y"
        messages:
          with_suffix:
            invalid: "inválida."
          without_suffix:
            invalid: "inválida."


Or, in a reduced form, when messages for with or without suffix are the same:

    br:
      flexible_date:
        configuration:
          format: "%d/%m/%Y"
        messages:
          invalid: "inválida."


Date format follows the same pattern used by strptime and strftime. This will
generate a my_date_field_flex "property" in which you can enter the date as
string in the specified format and then the correct date will be stored in
my_date_field.

When an error occurs, the "with_suffix" messages are generated for the "flex"
fields and "without_suffix" messages are generated for the regular ones.

Talk is cheap, let's see the code (given any of the locale files above):

    class Event < ActiveRecord::Base
      flexible_date :start_date, :end_date
    end

    event = Event.new
    event.start_date_flex = "31/01/2011"
    event.end_date_flex =  "28/02/2011"
    event.start_date.should == Date.new(2011, 01, 31)
    event.end_date.should == Date.new(2011, 02, 28)


And values assigned to regular fields are returned by _flex fields in the
specified format:

    event = Event.new :start_date => '2011-01-31',
                      :end_date => Date.new(2011, 02, 28)
    event.start_date_flex.should == "31/01/2011"
    event.end_date_flex.should == "28/02/2011"


Suffix can be customized:

    class Event < ActiveRecord::Base
      flexible_date :judgement_day, :suffix => 'yyz'
    end

    event = Event.new
    event.judgement_day_yyz = "28/02/2011"
    event.judgement_day.should == Date.new(2011, 02, 28)


flexible_date supports conditional execution through the :if option. The object
itself is passed as parameter to the block:

    class Event < ActiveRecord::Base
      flexible_date :payday, :if => Proc.new { |n| n.description.blank? }
    end

    event = Event.new(:description => "some content")
    event.payday_flex = "20/05/2011"
    event.should_not be_valid


== How to install

For Rails 3.1, just run:

    gem install flexible_date


For Rails 3.0:

    gem install flexible_date -v=0.3.0


== Do you know a better/standard solution?

My intention is to allow users typing dates directly to text fields in their
own local format. I didn't find a solution for this problem in Rails itself.
If you have a better solution, please let me know.

No, default select fields, separated by day, month and year are not a solution.


== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Rodrigo Manhães. See LICENSE.txt for further details.

